# Configuration

The configuration file for the run is found in `./config/config.yaml`.
If everything has been set up according to this guide so far, this config file should not need changing.
If the infrastructure or hazard data are stored somewhere other than `./data` and `./data/aqueduct` then
the relevant paths should be specified in `data_dir` and `hazard_data_dir`.
The `output_dir` will be created when the workflow is run.
As with the other paths, this will be interpreted with respect to the open-gira directory, so the default
`results` will create `./results` to house the output.
Make sure dataset is `tanzania-latest`. 
Everything else should stay as it is.

## Setup

The final piece we need to have in place prior to running is a file that explains to open-gira how to slice up
the data files we gave it.
This file will be `./data/tanzania-latest-extracts.geojson` and it will be automatically generated by the workflow.

First, however, we need to create a `./data/tanzania-latest.json` file that will be sliced into extracts by the script.
To do this, we create a new file, `./data/tanzania-latest.json` which looks like this:

```json
{
    "directory": "./data",
    "extracts": [
        {
            "bbox": [
                29.24395,
              -11.775945,
              40.69487,
              -0.974988
            ],
            "output": "tanzania-latest.osm.pbf"
        }
	]
}
```

Those values in the `bbox` property are the start and end latitude and longitude of the area we want to slice up.
We can extract the values for the whole `tazania-latest.osm.pbf` file by looking in the header information of the file.
Run:

```shell
osmium fileinfo data/tazania-latest.osm.pbf
```

You should see an output that contains
```text
Header:
  Bounding boxes:
    (29.24395,-11.775945,40.69487,-0.974988)
```

Those values are the values used for the overall bounding box json file. 
Later, the workflow will split this overall bounding box into a grid of smaller bounding boxes.
